I'm recording there regarding and
recording oh think this we don't can you
record the end alright alright ok so we
just started welcome everyone to the
ipfs Holland's September 4th
today is Labor Day Weber's day in the US
so we might see OS faces as unusual but
nevertheless the room seems pretty full
and I see that we have a demo here and a
bunch of 10 items excited we have run in
the past oh and the basketball of ones
like is just a quick update like
everyone would share what they are doing
but just we have so many items it might
be more available to actually go to
teach other first and then if people
want to share something extra or ask the
questions we use the time if we have
time left
sounds good alright
by the way who are these our amazing
I'll take it for today thank you so much
worse cool so first item actually just
like a a simple plate but that got me
very excited today I went to the multi
formats
organization and I started like just
like going through all the repos and
like seeing how many languages we add
available there and I realized it like
I'll do we have reposing many languages
we all know a team for Python JavaScript
and go so what I did was like I started
creating a team's for every language and
having the people that contributed to
those packages to those teams so that
they get like full access to contribute
to those packages as it should be and
when I finished I realized oh my god we
actually have like 14 teams 14 language
we multi formats is like from all of the
ipfs click it appear I peel the multi
formats project it is like the one that
people adopt the Fester's because it's
like super useful like motive
the other and so on and now people can
use it across 14 languages we do need to
update the table on the readme but
nevertheless like this is super exciting
and thank you for everyone that's as in
contributing so yeah okay so this is the
tip update let's go to the next one if I
don't see any hands
Josiah vessel has no support for get so
I don't know if fullness is here but no
okay it's not here no problem so
basically Lukas magic 6k as developed
over the weekend and pushed Apple
requests to add support for its
traversal through the beg API and
Jessica vests so if you have been using
it in DFS or if you've been using your
ipfs Traverse City rafts you now can do
that in jessup APIs as well you will
need to use Jessica's master but it will
be released on the next version of ipfs
which is the next item I also have on
this list which is Jessica fest 0:36 is
coming I hope to real ways it this week
it brings some cool stuff Stephen I
think you have your mic on or it looks
like we hear the problem so like there
is an issue I'll post see you in the
notes this this release will bring a lot
of like a big from Parfum provements and
I don't know it's like we don't want to
talk about that and it will bring the
Gateway also to josephus you'll be able
to use it as a bit festive as a great
way note as well which I'm also looking
forward to get some gateway nodes using
disappear us as I shall quit Lars and
Victor so that we also gets the metrics
and the monitoring that we get for the
IP APIs and yet there is more I lights
as I as you know I always create an
issue with like what is coming what are
the new cool features you can check that
issue on just because people it is a
student 986
yeah I'm explaining it
during this week because there's way
more stuff then what is listed there
cool if no one has any questions I'll
jump into the next item which is that
give s in Mexico
Emin tend to give us a little bit we did
with Microsoft and consensus I guess I
have two days in Akiko and well then the
thing was to see the state of the art of
the developers in companies the insurers
or the blockchain and most of the cases
not all needed documents need a lot
paper - yes sir so somebody approached
to me Charlie and one of our PFS can I
use this instead of s3 and then in all
the other tables I saw that people at
least knew I did something or they would
you sleep or music or whatever quite a
more surprise maybe to the blockchain
and I DFS can finally into the
mainstream that's pretty cool let's
really go Ike if there is like so it
wasn't a Catan so I guess there was
projects coming out of the icon if you
want to list those projects on the notes
like it to be awesome for everyone to be
able to check it out okay yeah I also
let them know that we have discounts
like they are more than welcome to join
us and chat and like again ask questions
he'll participate cool thank you so much
next item is related with events and
community it is me three with Costa Rica
so nothing as exciting as that I'm just
just starting to get a few people to get
her and maybe wanna first hack them and
just reaching out to friends and and
people that I know in the industry and
kind of get into voice out so you know
I'll update everyone when when hackathon
once and I get some feedback and see
where we're at here awesome that is
exciting if you if you if you want or if
you can like you can create an issue on
my pieces community that's like
typically our meetups know that it is
that other cities have started which is
create an issue like when we tweet about
it we see if we know more people that
are on the area that might be interested
in helping out or is like participating
and actually a good group is formed and
then a new development
awesome perfect I'll do that absolutely
awesome thank you so much that's
exciting
okay so next time on the agenda is ipfs
fight liquidation and there is a roof a
mess in your name right the roof that's
actually drew drew okay guys I first
p.m. call I come in you guys thank you
well the gated channel and I've been
playing with ipfs over the last few
months and trying to get a hang of it
I checked it once couple of years back
but I think to have nice applications
building on top of it I don't sort of
like the HTTP API so I will probably
help in implementing a Python port off
ipfs and see where that goes and thanks
for Dave especially thanks for your
guidance and pointers in wishing that
happen over the weekend i implemented
multi base and multi codec in python and
I'll move on to CID next
that's pretty cool yeah you are more
than welcome to ask questions and I keep
being me too for directions I know that
like our stacks need to be updated so if
you like you need to understand a little
like as you go more parts just ding me
on issues and I'll make sure to follow
up first what did you say what do you
implemented multi-bear the multi codec
yeah yeah ok awesome
well IRC channel as well I'm on the IRC
channel so I'll just bring you guys over
there
nice if you don't mind to have the links
to the implementation teammates to the
call notes yeah that would be useful
okay that's cool all right so if there
are no more topics we will jump into the
demos there is no ants okay I just
famous
the first demo is ipfs companion by
white oh really
hi I'm monitoring also known as your
pronunciation and this is a small pet
project I started in 2015 and it was
only Firefox post Firefox only but since
then Mozilla decided that they
deprecated legacy as decay missile base
SDK and they pushed quite hard towards
web extension api's and what I will be
showing you right now my drug shave
screen
[Music]
I'm safe let me know if you see we can
see it alright yeah so what I got here
is a quick demo of having the same
browser extension working in two
browsers I got the latest chromium I
know I'm not sure if it's the latest
what is the latest that I was able to
install and the current firefox and so
right now I don't have IP f s beam on in
the background maybe I should preface
this by telling you quickly about this
extension but this extension does it
started as a quick way to redirect
requests to public IP FS resources
mostly on the IDF s io public gateway
and to redirect all requests to such
public Gateway to your locality running
and go ipfs Daman and since then we've
added some additional features so let's
quickly install it the process it's
easier to show them yeah so we were
successful in publishing to the Chrome
Web Store you can find it as ipfs
companion you just install it and that's
all you can see in the bottom right
corner there's notification delta T IQ
FS ID is a fine that is because I've
shut down my local demon before this
presentation and let's go to the Firefox
under Firefox there is a small issue
that we still
that's officially published version is
the legacy one Mozilla generally is more
strict or maybe they value security more
and the review process is quite harder
than the one on the chrome market and
that is why our web extension version is
still in development channel but we hope
to get it promoted to the officially
renewed version soon hopefully before
Firefox 57 arrives which will stop
supporting legacy Adams but for now you
just go to this page and go to developer
channel there's the link or you can go
here and install the latest version from
developer Channel and if you install you
can see you've also got notification
that the API is aligned and both
browsers got this browser action and
when the demon is offline there's not
much there you can only open preferences
and yeah so you can go to preferences
and customize list of known public
gateways right now we've got a static
list because things like automatic
recognition of DNS links is still
experimental it slows down it slows down
the browser so it's it's disabled by
default but feel free to experiment with
it and that's about it when it comes to
configuration and if we start IP files
Demond you can see both browsers
display current hearing information and
we've got additional options such as of
an equal to I from this point I think
I'll close prom because it looks the
same in both browsers and the quick demo
would be you can open web UI from this
interface of course you can on any page
that you visit you can right click on
images or videos and we can directly
from this interface uploaded to ITF as
you can see here it's mirrored
to your local node and when you are
browsing when you are on the ITF s
resource this browser action menu has
additional three items you can copy
canonical address this address is just
our ipfs path you can copy public
gateway URL and that's something you can
sure to someone who does not know try
and you can pin or unpin ipfs resource
right now it's if I'm not mistaken it's
thinning recursively so if you pin
directory probably group in all its
children and sub directories if you
upload anything let's say I save this
here and then yeah so this is the
feature that enables you to upload a
file from your disk click upload and you
can just upload the same image and get
the same hard
so that's the gist of this functionality
and what's what's plan in future is to
of course work to integrate jeaious ipfs
so that we do not need to run local
activist demand I know the editor was
working on a serviceworker and things
like that and that's a great great
effort toward that goal
and we also got regression this
immigration to web extension API scause
functionality regression specific to
protocol handlers we no longer can
support FS or ipfs protocols as
first-class citizens what we are able to
support under Firefox is protocol
critics prefixed by web class and I
think that's two main pain points right
now I encourage everyone to check our
github repository there's a quick
contributing page that should be should
make it easy to play with it under
Firefox from I think that's all on my
end of course we've got a lot of issues
and there's also this label Help Wanted
it's something you can provide feedback
or maybe
I work as a standalone pull request yeah
I think that's all on my end
are there any questions this is a super
cool demo and it's super cool project
it's funny that I felt like a side
project that I've been doing since 2015
but there's a lot of work here and
thanks to this project we actually
discovered some of the browser obstacles
that we need to overcome in order to
actually get ipfs either trudeau ipfs or
just a BFS supported in a browser in a
way that users don't have to worry about
it so yeah thank you so much for like
continiously and pushing this effort
forward
it looks super cool I was checking the
DES knows this farm counter they're like
it's already 392 connections oh my god
just goes up listen stop connection yeah
and something I forgot to mention I've
got the back of my head that edge from
Microsoft and Oprah also support web
extension so we probably should create
tickets to see maybe just works we got
it working with chrome I think the most
of the work is already done
mm-hmm so that's something that's good
yeah yeah let's try it on yeah one more
reason to make sure that the go ipfs
works well I mean this is your hand yeah
there's a hand everyone thanks a lot for
that demo it's really cool I have a
little bit of good news
in terms of our issues with unsavory
well I was finally managed to track down
one of the reasons why there is on sale
Ebola now ipfs API dependencies turns
out protocol buffers is the the culprit
here which uses unsafe people to
generate code I knew
that package I just didn't knew that we
were actually using that
JSI behind us API so we will have to
figure out a way around this yeah sorry
yeah I I was experimenting a little bit
and I I've seen various ways people
tried to us about the evil stuff into
iframes yeah we so I think the good
solution here is make sure our
dependencies do not use eval it's just
it's not a good practice it's opens us
up for risks that we don't want to
necessarily take and there's really
nothing today anymore and processed it
that usually requires to use eval yeah I
yeah oh sorry I I seems to get some kind
of delay anyway the problem with evil
and Mozilla is that from what I've been
told is that if you submit the extension
and this extension is validated by some
automated tools and if they detect that
your extension of evil or other red
flags they just put your extension in
the slow lane and the review can take
weeks instead of days so that's yeah
that's quite painful yeah that's that's
very unfortunate
yeah is there is there a good way to
detect all the usages because currently
I've just been manually trying to figure
looking for the min of searching 30
minified file do you ever like found a
tool that easily checks the files for
where they're actually usages of this
when I was debugging I think the best
mmm the chrome chrome was the mmm
browser that gave me a better insight
into where
evil is located okay you can try loading
building going to the Metropole going to
the contribute contribution page and
building it and loading into the chrome
and the chrome got this feature that
it's it can unmanned unify sources yeah
yeah so I I was not able to find
anything better than that
so yeah yeah that that's that's
something thanks
any other questions
see that person okay thank you so much
for the demo super cool cool so we have
one more demo and yeah we still have a
lot of time so after the demo if people
want to discuss something that they've
been working on please do make sure to
remind us so the next time you easily
pew pew circuit and although it doesn't
have a name
I'm Jesse that's Dimitri yep sir brother
should have my name there no go for it
take it away
sure let me show my screen all right can
you guys see it yep awesome so I guess
I'll just mention what little bit
circuit is first basically it's a way of
just brilliant connections between notes
if Donuts can't communicate with each
other be for some reason they use a
third node to service relayed to to
basically show that around don't work or
you want to call it and this this then
one is basically no Gia's hypothesis
notes we go away the fest notes
communicating over a GES really so and
they say in the browser spell so browser
to browser over a no js' really to go
notes back and forth so we're gonna
start the no js' relay and the go know
it as well
this is obviously the file strengths for
example and what I'm gonna do is add a
file into the browser first and as you
can see when the note starts it prints
out it it's cookies circulat address
which is this thing and in order for me
to be able to use to basically right now
you can't fetch files from up no note
from the browser and with the with the
relay to be possible so I have this file
here now I need to connect the notes to
the relay the first one I'm gonna try to
connect yes hey browser hell and I'm
gonna connect this over WebSockets but
he's pinky address here now it's
effective it's connected to the relay
now I'm going to put let's see if I can
throw the peers that are connected to
for this really so yeah it's right the
you know the browser note is now
connected with it's really now I'm going
to try to connect the e no no that's not
mature that we don't have anything
connected I'm first going to connect it
to the really and then connect the drone
out to the browser so we have both now
connected to this really here and as you
can see as well try to detect if it's a
hope know and if it's help note it's
gonna add if its internal is now let's
connect the browser or let's make the
don't up to the browser
it's just others right here and all
right let's connected you're above here
this is a going out by the way this is
the browser now again and this is the V
link and now I'm going to try to fetch
this image from from the browser
laughs years it's that is so nice
there you go it's pretty cool
that's right yeah awesome sweet miss
what's other ways as well so yeah sure
like this but it does work the other way
and it was super cool that you bailed
from girl to the browser and not the
other way around and also there that's
yeah like it was instantaneous like I
didn't take them at all like as soon as
you say dial it appeared on the browser
that it was connected it is pretty fast
yeah can you show the the the peers in
the browser
I also saw yeah yeah when you connected
well if you open a webpage Dimitri
absolutely yep so this to this one is
really and this one is the relate yeah
that we like now yep things we are there
like 6,001 and there is no I guess like
it's missing there slash pewter pewter
sir grades / IP FS right well this err
so it just displays the whatever
whatever address it funds I think it's
the first one yeah but the address is
incorrect it has a port number and then
an IP FS ID there's a bug there oh okay
I see
yeah I see it minute thanks reporting
that I missed it
that's weird alright but it does work so
it can't be that bad wow I can't believe
I missed it LeBron yeah should be some
connection so it's probably pretty yeah
that's for your seed and I this is the
gallop EFS nodes we relied at these
though I've been working on right yeah
that's the that's piece of note
implementation with my do some tasting
working over a Jas no I haven't been
able to get the browser connected and
I'm not sure this definetely something
we go itself but I might not be aware of
but you is the WebSocket implementation
functional and go or is it not so much
because I'm not able to connect from the
browser to go now the ipfs confit it's
like you might be fast does support
WebSockets and that's how the browser
connects to the rubbers have you checked
the IP FS configure of your go know just
to make sure that there is an IP
WebSockets will the other there yeah
yeah what what version of go are you
running against go IP festmaster allow
you that one again service that is
master yeah so like there is no there is
no WebSockets there oh this one yes I
had another one that had the pucketts
and it wasn't working it might be I just
blend this up for this level because I
like I tried making it work yesterday
but I couldn't get it to work at the
circuit so I and I just cleaned
everything up and started over to this
one here yeah could you try WebSockets
done supports your zero today oh oh they
do that they do and girl never mind
could you try testing us against the
latest ipfs go out here it's releases
well I just do basically and if those
work and master doesn't please final
issue and we'll look into it because we
did upgrade WebSockets eventually
somewhere on the line and that doesn't
mean that we broke something I see okay
that makes a yeah I was I was basically
what I was getting with sapporo korea in
the browser
and gentle from the from them mound from
the common line now they're not done not
the browser one it's a port but not from
anyways along I'll check it out against
the latest foodies and finally a ship
its supports thanks all right
any questions here serious thought
thank you so much for the demo this
looks pretty cool like let's figure out
what is the situation with the WebSocket
didn't go and also try to do the demo
with Gil as the relay and yeah like just
like lifting the pull request a top
level one what is missing I know that I
gave some ideas for more testing and
there are some things that you're still
polishing so like just keep us updated
so that we make sure that we review
things on time so that we can merge it
as fast as possible yeah absolutely
very excited right really yeah yeah it
has you know one coming one yeah cool
all right so let me check the agenda
just to cover my screen there is large
files in the browser I've got one more
demo if you want to see it it's not as
exciting as the two ones before me I'm
afraid but I can't show you we don't
know what we don't know but I can't show
your work addition of adding a large
file in the browser to JSF s without the
browser dying which I find reasonably
exciting yeah go for it sure let me
share my screen
[Music]
scream
all right please ignore the 500 errors
in connecting to the bootstrappers
that's just build I have
no it's let's turd it's alright we've
got running
yeah the remote piers are not fully
working but we can still have files so
let's start with how you don't see that
right there we go now you can see
that's one there we go okay because the
interesting part is the file sizes here
interesting if you can't see them so
I've got a couple of image dmg file to
lying around here that I found on my
machine so the smallest one is Google
Chrome so I start with that one
yeah we currently there is no progress
support currently because that's coming
soon hopefully do not explain why this
is exciting and like what was they yes
what is fixed now
so let me explain while this is adding
what's her what the issue was before so
there was an issue on JC because which
says oh yeah worried uh so probably
better start when the bigger one in the
background let's add the 100 Meg's
alright so the interesting thing here is
cleared initiate where Chrome or any
other browser for that matter would just
crash if so did having large files and
it also was seen as very very slow and
so I took a look at that and eventually
he was able to figure out the various
issues we had that bit resulted in this
happening the first one was that our
browser version of AES encounter
encryption was allocating a lot of
buffers when doing encryption encounter
mode which was not very productive and
ended up generating a lot of GC calls
basically so this was already has
already done that's 100 Meg's and that
made the JavaScript just very very slow
and when when this was especially when
things were going over the wire because
that's why we do that encryption the
other thing that here was a major issue
was that the original code was using
regular node streams and a particularly
interesting module which is wrapped a
big file into a kind of stream and
buffering them buffering it and then
sending that as a note stream to the jsf
you first node stream API and then
adding it to JSF FS
and so I did benchmarks of what I ended
up having is me see if I have the
screenshot it was just basically showing
me
that's the wrong one mm-hmm there we go
so we're basically showing me this
and and copy is a buffer operation
called by sent data and from and from
algebra and conquered effectively also
both end up being called from buffer
operations and most of these were just
being called because we were just
buffering things way over and so it
would copy holiday the tons of times
through through and through and it would
just run out of time to do things and so
we're just crash eventually or just
become very very slow and now if we
factored the code to just use pull
strings pulling directly the data from
this kind of stream that the filereader
api provides from the browser directly
into JS hi professor you seen them it's
working pretty nicely no that's super
cool do we have an estimate when
browserify yes gets really because i
know like they merge the pr but they've
been pretty silent about the movies i
guess okay like they're like five owners
we just want to polish do they're on NPM
actually yeah like one of them is
feather so i can think better for me and
the other I think is Dominic I think we
also can ping Dominic this dummy no no
yeah the life I haven't seen Dominic
active and recently I don't know if is
what's online currently yet sping let's
paint people and just see what happens
we we should get
latest releases two years ago was two
years ago that's like there's a lot of
stuff not released like a lot okay so
let's definitely ping them to RC and the
later in the week through email if if
they don't boo boy we want to have this
released for the next really subjective
us yeah
the thing is yeah we might have we have
might have to still pull it manually
ourselves because this is pulled in
through web pack and browserify so
depending on their version declarations
even the release there is not a first
same thing as we have with brother
Faisal it again but the good news is I
now have I can I can get a browser if I
release to help if we need you I'm not
sure about web pack I am a maintainer of
browserify it seems now for season at
least I get up so I can ping people
there definitely to make a release
happen I don't know about the white
backside but what I release is regularly
so that should not be that hard you
better something up hopefully sounds
good yeah that's a fair follow up on the
notes of these cow like ping people and
I could start to get all that this
possible
yeah cool awesome three demos today and
it was a big day and it's an all either
in u.s.
so imagine metric is there any other
thing that people would like to discuss
we still have 11 minutes I can also and
then email and your hack on stuff
all right seems er done
thank you so much everyone this is fun
thank you for the demo while Demetri
Friddle thank you for taking notes
Lars yeah thank you everyone for joining
cool every week see you next Monday
thank you guys